@syntax owiki
@title Building OxyPlot
@keywords OxyPlot,Build

== Building OxyPlot

=== Requirements
- .NET 3.5 or later
- Build tool with support for Portable Class Libraries (Visual Studio 201x, MonoDevelop, Xamarin Studio, MsBuild)
- StyleCop (only required for builds on Windows)

The OxyPlot solutions can be opened in

- VS 2010 (with the [http://visualstudiogallery.msdn.microsoft.com/b0e0b5e9-e138-410b-ad10-00cb3caf4981|Portable Library Tools] extension)
- VS 2012 (with the latest update)
- VS 2013
- MonoDevelop
- Xamarin Studio (for GTK#, Android, iOS and OSX apps)

VS Express does not support Portable Class Libraries, and cannot be used to build OxyPlot. But, you can use VS Express to build applications that reference the OxyPlot assemblies!

Depending on what platform you want to build, you may need to install extra SDKs or target framework profiles

- [http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=22|.NET 3.5]
- [http://www.microsoft.com/nb-no/download/details.aspx?id=17851|.NET 4.0]
- [http://www.microsoft.com/nb-no/download/details.aspx?id=30653|.NET 4.5]
- [http://visualstudiogallery.msdn.microsoft.com/b0e0b5e9-e138-410b-ad10-00cb3caf4981/|Portable library tools 2.0]
- [ http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=40727|Microsoft .NET Portable Library Reference Assemblies 4.6]
- [http://stylecop.codeplex.com/|StyleCop]
- [http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=7335|Silverlight 4 SDK]
- [http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=28359|Silverlight 5 SDK]
- [http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/desktop/bg162891.aspx|Windows Store App]
- [http://www.mono-project.com/GtkSharp|GTK#]
- [http://xamarin.com/ios|Xamarin.iOS]
- [http://xamarin.com/android|Xamarin.Android]
- [http://xamarin.com/mac|Xamarin.Mac]

See [https://oxyplot.codeplex.com/discussions/539517|Discussion 539517] for information about installing portable library tools on a machine without Visual Studio.

=== Obtain the source code

OxyPlot is using Mercurial (Hg) distributed version control system (DVCS). To obtain the code, it is recommended to install one of the following Mercurial clients

- [http://tortoisehg.bitbucket.org/|TortoiseHg] (Windows shell extension)
- [http://www.sourcetreeapp.com/|SourceTree] (for Windows and Mac, also supports Git)
- [http://mercurial.selenic.com/|Mercurial] (command line)

There is also a Mercurial plug-in for Visual Studio: [http://visualhg.codeplex.com/|VisualHG]

Clone the repository from `https://hg.codeplex.com/oxyplot`

{Images\TortoiseHgClone.png}

or from the command line

```
hg clone https://hg.codeplex.com/oxyplot
```

If you don't want to use Mercurial, you can also obtain the complete source code from the [http://oxyplot.codeplex.com|CodePlex] project page. Navigate to the "Source Code" tab, then click the "Download" link.

=== Build

It should be possible to open the solution and build without any additional steps.
You can also build the source code by scripts in the `Build/` folder.

=== Build output

The build output of the //Release// configurations are placed in the `Output/` folder. The output of the //Debug// configurations are placed under the `Source/*/bin/Debug` folders. 

=== Additional information

OxyPlot is currently being built by [http://www.microsoft.com/visualstudio|Visual Studio 2013] on a Windows 8.1 virtual machine (running on [https://www.virtualbox.org|VirtualBox]). The build machine is running [http://www.jetbrains.com/teamcity/|TeamCity] and trigs the build on every code check-in. When all code is compiled and all unit tests have passed, the build machine is automatically pushing [http://nuget.org|NuGet] packages and uploading the output files to Codeplex and oxyplot.org.

The build steps are described in the `Build/BuildSteps.txt` file.

{Images\BuildMachine.png}