@syntax owiki
@title WPF Example
@keywords OxyPlot,WPF,Example

== Tracker

// TODO //

The 'tracker' is shown when you press down the left mouse button over some data in the plot.
By default the tracker shows the values of the current point.

{images/tracker.png}


=== Format string

The easiest way to modify the information shown in the tracker, is to modify the `TrackerFormatString` of the series.

The arguments are specific to each class.

|| Class || ~{0} || ~{1} || Examples |
| LineSeries | X | Y | `"{0:0.00} {1:0.00}"` |

The format string can also contain formatting codes for properties in the nearest item of the hit. Use the property name inside the curly braces: `{MyProperty:0.00}`

The culture of the tracker format string can be set in the `Culture` property in the `PlotModel`. The default culture is the current UI culture. 

=== Template

The WPF/Silverlight `Plot` controls contain a dependency property `DefaultTrackerTemplate` where a custom `ControlTemplate` can be defined.
When the tracker is shown, the `DataContext` will be set to a `TrackerHitResult`. You can bind `Position` and data properties from the hit results. 

```xml
TODO: example template
```

See the `Source\Examples\WPF\CustomTrackerDemo` application for examples on how to make custom trackers.

=== Tracker control
The WPF and Silverlight projects contain a `TrackerControl` that can be used in tracker templates.
You should bind the `Position`, `LineExtents` and `Content` properties to data in the `TrackerHitResult`.
Example

```xml
TODO: template using TrackerControl
```

=== TrackerHitResult

This class contains data about the current hit of the tracker:

| `Position` | the XY screen coordinates of the tracker.|
| `DataPoint` | the data point if the tracker shows an item from a DataPointSeries.|
| `Series` | the current series.|
| `PlotModel` | the current plot model.|
| `LineExtents` | the rectangle that should be used to draw the horizontal and vertical lines.|
| `XAxis` | the current x axis.|
| `YAxis` | the current y axis.|
| `Item` | the current item if an `ItemsSource` was used to generate the data.|
| `Text` | the text to be shown in the tracker. If this property is set, the series' `TrackerFormatString` will not be used.|
 
=== Tracker definitions

If you want to specify different trackers for the series, you should define `TrackerDefinition`s in the `Plot` control.
Set the `TrackerKey` of the series to select which `TrackerDefinition` to use.  
